CSS property page: filter (#24417)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/filter/index.md

  - CSS
  - CSS Property
  - Reference
  - filter 
  - filter-function

> browser-compat: css.properties.filter

Author: I thought the SVG BCD line has to do with "does CSS filter property work on SVG elements". `filter` works on `<SVG>`, but does it work on `<path>`? And it does. https://codepen.io/estelle/pen/rNZNqaK so i need to file an update to BCD

> browser-compat: css.properties.filter

Author: it also works on `<SVG>`. The MDN logo in the second example is and SVG, and both the codepen and this MDN logo example work in Edge/Chrome

  - CSS
  - CSS Property
  - Reference
  - filter 
  - filter-function
browser-compat: css.properties.filter
---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`filter`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property applies graphical effects like blur or color shift to an element. Filters are commonly used to adjust the rendering of images, backgrounds, and borders.

Several [functions](#functions), such as `blur()` and `contrast()`, are available to help you achieve predefined effects.

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/css/filter.html")}}

## Syntax

```css

> /* URL */
> filter: url("filters.svg#filter-id");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/* URL */
filter: url("filters.svg#filter-id");
```

Within "Syntax", can this be moved to after filters and multiple filters, that is, after line 45. This is so that the "Syntax" first mentions the filter functions and then the url() for SVG. 

This order inside "Syntax" will then match the order of explanations outside the "Syntax" box.

When the `filter` property values contains mutiple functions, the filters are applied in order.

- {{cssxref("filter-function/blur", "blur()")}}
  - : Applies a Gaussian blur to the input image.

```css
filter: blur(5px);
```

- {{cssxref("filter-function/brightness", "brightness()")}}
  - : Applies a linear multiplier to the input image, making it appear more or less bright. Values are linear multipliers on the effect, with `0%` creating a completely black image, `100%` having no effect, and values over `100%` brightening the image.

```css
filter: brightness(2);
```

- {{cssxref("filter-function/contrast", "contrast()")}}
  - : Adjusts the contrast of the input image. A value of `0%` makes the image grey, `100%` has no effect, and values over `100%` creates a contrast.

```css
filter: contrast(200%);
```

- {{cssxref("filter-function/drop-shadow", "drop-shadow()")}}

>   - : Applies the parameter `<shadow>` as a drop shadow, following the contours of the image. The shadow syntax is similar to `<box-shadow>` (defined in the [CSS backgrounds and borders module](/en-us/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Backgrounds_and_Borders)), with the exception that the `inset` keyword and `spread` parameter are not allowed. As with all `filter` property values, any filters coming after the `drop-shadow()` are applied to the shadow.

Reviewer 2: Fixing the one single flaw:
```suggestion
  - : Applies the parameter `<shadow>` as a drop shadow, following the contours of the image. The shadow syntax is similar to `<box-shadow>` (defined in the [CSS backgrounds and borders module](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Backgrounds_and_Borders)), with the exception that the `inset` keyword and `spread` parameter are not allowed. As with all `filter` property values, any filters after the `drop-shadow()` are applied to the shadow.
```

  - : Inverts the samples in the input image. A value of `100%` completely inverts the image. A value of `0%` leaves the input unchanged. Values between `0%` and `100%` have linear multipliers on the effect.

```css
filter: invert(100%);
```

- {{cssxref("filter-function/opacity", "opacity()")}}
  - : Applies transparency. `0%` makes the image completely transparent and `100%` leaves the image unchanged.

```css
filter: opacity(50%);
```

- {{cssxref("filter-function/saturate", "saturate()")}}
  - : Saturates the image, with `0%` being completely unsaturated, `100%` leaving the image unchanged, and values of over `100%` increasing saturation.

```css
filter: saturate(200%);
```

- {{cssxref("filter-function/sepia", "sepia()")}}
  - : Converts the image to sepia, with a value of `100%` making the image completely sepia and `0%` making no change.

```css
filter: sepia(100%);
```

## Combining functions

You may combine any number of functions to manipulate the rendering. The filters are applied in the order declared. The following example enhances the contrast and brightness of the image:

```css
filter: contrast(175%) brightness(103%);
```

### Interpolation

> When animated, if both the beginning and end filters have a function list of the same length without {{cssxref("url","url()")}} in the same order, each of their filter functions is {{Glossary("interpolation", "interpolated")}} according to its specific rules.

Author: ```suggestion
When animated, if both the beginning and end filters have a function list of the same length without {{cssxref("url","url()")}} in the same order, each of their filter functions is {{Glossary("interpolation", "interpolated")}} according to the filter function's specific rules.
```

> If the filter lists are of different lengths, the missing equivalent filter functions from the longer list are added to the end of the shorter list using their initial, no filter modification values, then all filter functions are interpolated according to their specific rules. Otherwise, discrete interpolation is used.

Author: ```suggestion
If the filter lists are of different lengths, the missing equivalent filter functions from the longer list are added to the end of the shorter list. The added functions use their initial, no filter modification values. All the filters listed are then interpolated according to the filter function's specific rules. Otherwise, discrete interpolation is used.
```

filter: <filter-function> [<filter-function>]* | none;
```

> You can user `url()` to reference an [SVG filter element](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Element/filter). For a reference to an SVG {{SVGElement("filter")}} element, use the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use `url()` to reference an [SVG filter element](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Element/filter). For a reference to an SVG {{SVGElement("filter")}} element, use the following syntax:
```

```css
filter: url(file.svg#filter-element-id);

> ```

Reviewer: - I don't think we need this because it is already covered as part of Syntax.
- The syntax can be included as a comment before the usage example, like so:
```
/* URL to SVG filter */
/* filter: url(file.svg#filter-element-id) */
filter: url("filters.svg#filter-id");
```
- In Syntax, we can move the SVG syntax example to after the filters and multiple filters usage.

Author: it's really that you can use `url()` and put an SVG in that url. I've updated to reflect that

## Functions

The `filter` property is specified as `none` or one or more of the functions listed below. If the parameter for any function is invalid, the function returns `none`. Except where noted, the functions that take a value expressed with a percent sign (as in `34%`) also accept the value expressed as decimal (as in `0.34`).

When the `filter` property values contains mutiple functions, the filters are applied in order.

- {{cssxref("filter-function/blur", "blur()")}}
  - : Applies a Gaussian blur to the input image.

```css
filter: blur(5px);
```

- {{cssxref("filter-function/brightness", "brightness()")}}

>   - : Applies a linear multiplier to the input image, making it appear more or less bright. Values are linear multipliers on the effect with `0%` creating a completely black image, `100%` having no effect, and values over `100%` brightening the image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Applies a linear multiplier to the input image, making it appear more or less bright. Values are linear multipliers on the effect, with `0%` creating a completely black image, `100%` having no effect, and values over `100%` brightening the image.
```

```css
filter: brightness(2);
```

- {{cssxref("filter-function/contrast", "contrast()")}}

>   - : Adjusts the contrast of the input image. A value of `0%` makes the image grey, `100%` has no effect, and values over `100%` creates a contrast.

Reviewer: Sorry, I introduced a typo

```suggestion
  - : Adjusts the contrast of the input image. A value of `0%` makes the image grey, `100%` has no effect, and values over `100%` create a contrast.
```

>   - : Adjusts the contrast of the input image. A value of `0%` makes the image grey, `100%` has no effect, and values over `100%` creating contrast.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Adjusts the contrast of the input image. A value of `0%` makes the image grey, `100%` has no effect, and values over `100%` creates a contrast.
```

```css
filter: contrast(200%);
```

- {{cssxref("filter-function/drop-shadow", "drop-shadow()")}}

>   - : Applies the parameter `<shadow>` as a drop shadow, following the contours of the image. The shadow syntax is similar to `<box-shadow>` (defined in [CSS Backgrounds and Borders Module Level 3](/en-us/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Backgrounds_and_Borders)), with the exception that the `inset` keyword and `spread` parameter are not allowed. As will all `filter` property values, any filters coming after the `drop-shadow()` are applied to the shadow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Applies the parameter `<shadow>` as a drop shadow, following the contours of the image. The shadow syntax is similar to `<box-shadow>` (defined in the [CSS backgrounds and borders module](/en-us/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Backgrounds_and_Borders)), with the exception that the `inset` keyword and `spread` parameter are not allowed. As with all `filter` property values, any filters coming after the `drop-shadow()` are applied to the shadow.
```

```css
filter: drop-shadow(16px 16px 10px black);
```

- {{cssxref("filter-function/grayscale", "grayscale()")}}

>   - : Converts the image to grayscale. A value of `100%` is completely grayscale. The initial value of `0%` leaves the input unchanged. Values between `0%` and `100%` are linear multipliers on the effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Converts the image to grayscale. A value of `100%` is completely grayscale. The initial value of `0%` leaves the input unchanged. Values between `0%` and `100%` produce linear multipliers on the effect.
```

```css
filter: grayscale(100%);
```

- {{cssxref("filter-function/hue-rotate", "hue-rotate()")}}

>   - : Applies a hue rotation. The `<angle>` value defines the number of degrees around the hue color circle the input samples will be adjusted. A value of `0deg` leaves the input unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Applies a hue rotation. The `<angle>` value defines the number of degrees around the hue color circle at which the input samples will be adjusted. A value of `0deg` leaves the input unchanged.
```

```css
filter: hue-rotate(90deg);
```

- {{cssxref("filter-function/invert", "invert()")}}

>   - : Inverts the samples in the input image. A value of `100%` is completely inverted. A value of `0%` leaves the input unchanged. Values between `0%` and `100%` are linear multipliers on the effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Inverts the samples in the input image. A value of `100%` completely inverts the image. A value of `0%` leaves the input unchanged. Values between `0%` and `100%` have linear multipliers on the effect.
```

```css
filter: invert(100%);
```

- {{cssxref("filter-function/opacity", "opacity()")}}

>   - : Applies transparency with `0%` being completely transparent and `100%` leaving the image unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Applies transparency. `0%` makes the image completely transparent and `100%` leaves the image unchanged.
```

```css
filter: opacity(50%);
```

- {{cssxref("filter-function/saturate", "saturate()")}}

>   - : Saturates the image with a value of `0%` being completely un-saturated, `100%` leaving the image unchanged and values of amount over `100%` increasing saturation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Saturates the image, with `0%` being completely unsaturated, `100%` leaving the image unchanged, and values of over `100%` increasing saturation.
```

```css
filter: saturate(200%);
```

- {{cssxref("filter-function/sepia", "sepia()")}}

>   - : Converts the image to sepia with a value of `100%` being completely sepia and `0%` making no change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Converts the image to sepia, with a value of `100%` making the image completely sepia and `0%` making no change.
```

```css
filter: sepia(100%);
```

## Combining functions

You may combine any number of functions to manipulate the rendering. The filters are applied in the order declared. The following example enhances the contrast and brightness of the image:

```css
filter: contrast(175%) brightness(103%);
```

### Interpolation

> When animated, if both the beginning and end filters have a function list of the same length without {{cssxref("url","url()")}} in the same order, each of their filter functions is {{Glossary("interpolation", "interpolated")}} according to its specific rules.

Reviewer: Can we elaborate what "its" is referring to?

> If the filter lists are of different lengths, the missing equivalent filter functions from the longer list are added to the end of the shorter list using their initial, no filter modification values, then all filter functions are interpolated according to their specific rules. Otherwise, discrete interpolation is used.

Reviewer: Some word seems to be missing here. Can this also be rewritten to split into shorter sentences?
